The guest video of today is from Grady of Practical Engineering
He talks about a tragedy
and the lesson we learned from it, and the reason why it is fascinating that it happened
In addition, he has also made his own model.
Grady. Go ahead!
In the summer of 1981, the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri, [United States],
a big party in an atrium space of several floors.
During this event
collapsed the hanging walkways on the second and fourth floor.
where more than 100 people died, and another 200 people were injured.
When it happened, it was the worst structural accident in US history.
In the aftermath of the disaster
researchers discovered a change in the original design of the walkways
it had been proposed by the manufacturer and had been accepted by mistake by the structural engineer.
What at first glance seems to be a subtle adaptation to the design,
turned out to be the cause of the collapse.
Two hanging walkways hung in the atrium of the Hyatt Regency
with the suspension bridge on the second floor directly under the suspension bridge on the fourth floor.
Both were supported by a set of box girders
held up by wire rods, and secured with nuts and washers.
The original design required a single pair of wire rods
that went through the box girder of the fourth floor to the box girder of the second.
The manufacturer responsible for making the walkways did not agree with the plan
because there was then need of thread thread along the entire length of the wire rods,
something that could easily be damaged during construction.
So, he suggested dividing the wire rods into two sets.
One to connect the walkway on the fourth floor with the roof,
and one to connect the walkway on the second floor to the box girders of the fourth floor.
If you do not notice the significance of this change, then you are not the only one.
It was assumed by the engineer, without proper checking, or calculations,
something that would have revealed its inherent error.
In this arrangement, what the original design must represent,
the weight of the walkways is transferred independently to the wire rods.
Notice how I can move both box beams without influencing the others
Now look at the changed design.
In this arrangement,
see that the entire weight of the walkway is carried on the second floor
not through the wire rods
but instead, through the box bar above it.
If I raise the bridge of the fourth floor, the walkway of the second floor is also lifted.
The threaded rods at the top still carry the same weight,
but the nuts of the upper box beam, lifting the weight of both walkways.
This simple adjustment has effectively doubled the load on the nuts.
Imagine that you and your friend both hang on a rope.
The original design would be equal to that you both, independently, hold the rope
while in the changed design it would be the same as your friend who is holding on to your ankles.
The total weight dar is borne by the rope is the same in both cases,
but the chance that you can keep your grip is not.
This subtle change was identified by researchers as the main reason for the collapse.
With so many men on the walkway that evening
the burden on the connections was too much
The box girders tore open and slid over the nuts and washers
Which caused both walkways to collapse.
There is an implicit handshake between a society and its engineers.
We have virtually no choice but to trust that the environment in which we live
is safe
When an engineer accepts a design,
he or she assumes responsibility for accuracy and safety for the general public.
But making mistakes is human, and that includes engineers.
So we try to develop similarities and processes
that can correct and correct mistakes before they go too far.
And that includes studying and learning mistakes made in the past.
The failure of the Hyatt Regency walkways is an important case
which is taught to virtually every engineer.
with the aim that such a tragedy will never take place again.
Practical Engineering is full of great videos, so go subscribe!
I would advise you to start with Grady's videos about hydrostatics.
Next time
A guest video with an object that has been to the moon.